v0.25: Keys API reference (#1312)
meilisearch/documentation: reference/api/keys.md

**Mandatory:** yes

A list of API actions permitted for the key. `["*"]` for all actions.

The `*` character can also be used as a wildcard to get all permissions for a route, e.g. `documents.*` to authorize access to all document-related endpoints.

| name             | description |
|------------------|-------------|
| search           | Provides access to `GET` and `POST` methods on `/indexes/:authorizedIndexes/search` routes. |
| documents.add    | Provides access to `POST` and `PUT` on `/indexes/:authorizedIndexes/documents` routes. |
| documents.get    | Provides access to `GET` methods on `/indexes/:authorizedIndexes/documents` and `/indexes/:authorizedIndexes/documents/:documentId` routes. |
| documents.delete | Provides access to `DELETE` method on `/indexes/:authorizedIndexes/documents/:documentId`, `indexes/:authorizedIndexes/documents/:documentId` and `POST` method on `/indexes/:authorizedIndexes/documents/delete-batch` routes. |
| indexes.add      | Provides access to `POST` `/indexes`. **⚠️ The newly created index is automatically added to the permissions for the API key making the call, as well as all others keys having `[*]` as a value for `indexes`**. |

> | indexes.get      | Provides access to `GET` `/indexes` and `/indexes/:authorizedIndexes`. **⚠️Non-authorized `indexes` are omitted from the response on `/indexes`**. |

Reviewer: Do we really need the `⚠️  etc` bits in the description? They feel a bit more like warnings for the devs than for documentation users.

| tasks.get        | Provides access to `GET` `/tasks`. **⚠️Non-authorized `indexes` are omitted from the response on `/tasks`**. Also add access to `GET` `/indexes/:authorizedIndexes/tasks` routes. |
| settings.get     | Provides access to `GET` `/indexes/:authorizedIndexes/settings` and `/indexes/:authorizedIndexes/settings/*` routes. |
| settings.update  | Provides access to `POST / DELETE` `/indexes/:authorizedIndexes/settings` and `/indexes/:authorizedIndexes/settings/*` routes. |
| stats.get        | Provides access to `GET` `/stats/`. **⚠️Non-authorized `indexes` are omitted from the response on `/stats`**. Also add access to `GET` `/indexes/:authorizedIndexes/stats`. |
| dumps.create     | Provides access to `POST` `/dumps` route. **As dumps are not scoped by indexes, a restriction on `indexes` does not affect this action.** |
| dumps.get        | Provides access to `GET` `/dumps/:dumpUid` route. **As dumps are not scoped by indexes, a restriction on `indexes` does not affect this action.** |
| version          | Provides access to `GET` `/version` route.

#### `indexes`

**Type:** array
**Modifiable:** yes
**Mandatory:** yes

> A list of indexes permitted for the key. `["*"]` for all indexes.

Reviewer: gods, it took me five minutes to decipher what I meant.

In essence, I was wondering if using `for` with `permit` is correct English. I get that the meaning is "a list of the indexes a key has permission to access", but "permitted for the key" sounds a bit clunky. Or is it just me?

#### `expiresAt`

**Type:** string
**Modifiable:** yes
**Mandatory:** yes

Expiration date and time of the key represented in **ISO-8601** format. `null` if the key never expires.

#### `createdAt`

**Type:** string
**Modifiable:** no

Date and time the key was created, represented in **ISO-8601** format.

#### `updatedAt`

**Type:** string
**Modifiable:** no

Date and time the key was last updated, represented in **ISO-8601** format.

## Get one key

<RouteHighlighter method="GET" route="/keys/:key"/>

> Get information on the specified key.

Reviewer: Should we say something about what happens when you use `GET keys/:key` with a deleted/expired key?

      "updatedAt": "2021-08-11T10:00:00Z"
    },
    {
      "description": "Default Admin API Key (Use it for all other operations. Caution! Do not share it on the client side)",
      "key": "380689dd379232519a54d15935750cc7625620a2ea2fc06907cb40ba5b421b6f",
      "actions": [
        "*"
      ],
      "indexes": [
        "*"
      ],
      "expiresAt": null,
      "createdAt": "2021-08-11T10:00:00Z",
      "updatedAt": "2021-08-11T10:00:00Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

To learn more about the fields displayed here, take a look at the [API key object definition](#api-key-object-definition).

## Create a key

<RouteHighlighter method="POST" route="/keys/:key"/>

Create an API key with the provided description, permissions, and expiration date.

Only the `indexes`, `actions`, and `expiresAt` fields are mandatory. For more information, take a look at the [API key object definition](#api-key-object-definition).

### Example

<CodeSamples id="create_a_key_1" />

#### Response: `201 Created`

```json
{
    "description": "Add documents: Products API key",
    "key": "d0552b41536279a0ad88bd595327b96f01176a60c2243e906c52ac02375f9bc4",
    "actions": [
        "documents.add"
    ],

>     "indexes": ["products"],

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "indexes": [
    "products"
    ],
```

    "expiresAt": "2021-11-13T00:00:00Z",
    "createdAt": "2021-11-12T10:00:00Z",
    "updatedAt": "2021-11-12T10:00:00Z"
}
```

To learn more about the fields displayed here, take a look at the [API key object definition](#api-key-object-definition).

## Update a key

<RouteHighlighter method="PATCH" route="/keys/:key"/>

> Update the description, permissions, and/or expiration date of an API key.

Reviewer: I personally feel "/or" is not necessary here. Also feels like we don't use that construct very often (or at all?) in the rest of the docs, though we can always decide to change that.

```suggestion
Update the description, permissions, and expiration date of an API key.
```

> You do not have to reproduce the API key object in the payload. **Provide only the fields you intend to update.**

Reviewer: I find the first sentence a bit confusing. Perhaps we can drop it?

Not sure this is any better:

```suggestion
This is a `PATCH` route, which means you can provide only the fields you intend to update.
```

      "key": "380689dd379232519a54d15935750cc7625620a2ea2fc06907cb40ba5b421b6f",
      "actions": [
        "*"
      ],
      "indexes": [
        "*"
      ],
      "expiresAt": null,
      "createdAt": "2021-08-11T10:00:00Z",
      "updatedAt": "2021-08-11T10:00:00Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### `description`

A description for the key. Default value is `null`.

#### `key`

An alphanumeric key value generated by MeiliSearch on API key creation. Used for authorization when [making calls to a protected MeiliSearch instance](/reference/features/authentication.md#communicating-with-a-protected-instance).

This value is also used as the `:key` path variable to [update](#update-a-key), [delete](#delete-a-key), or [get](#get-one-key) a specific key.

#### `actions`

An array of API actions permitted for the key. `["*"]` for all actions.

The `*` character can also be used as a wildcard to get all permissions for a route, e.g. `documents.*` to authorize access to all document-related endpoints.

#### `indexes`

An array of indexes permitted for the key. `["*"]` for all indexes.

#### `expiresAt`

> Date and time when the key will expire, represented in **ISO 8601** format. `null` if the key never expires.

Reviewer 2: Do we want ISO 8601 to be bold every time?

Reviewer: Good catch. I'm against it, feels like we're giving it too much importance.

# Keys

The `keys` route allows you to create, manage, and delete API keys. In order to use these endpoints, the [master key must be set](/reference/features/configuration.md#master-key) and supplied in the header of the request:

```bash
curl \

>   -H 'Authorization: Bearer masterKeyGoesHere'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer [your_master_key]'
```

**Type:** string
**Modifiable:** no

An alphanumeric key value generated by MeiliSearch on API key creation. Used for authorization when [making calls to a protected MeiliSearch instance](/reference/features/authentication.md#communicating-with-a-protected-instance).

This value is also used as the `:key` path variable to [update](#update-a-key), [delete](#delete-a-key), or [get information on](#get-one-key) a specific key.

**Example**:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/products/documents' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer d0552b41536279a0ad88bd595327b96f01176a60c2243e906c52ac02375f9bc4'
  --data-binary '{
    "id": 1,
    "title": "Product 1",
    "description": "Our first product!"
    "price": 42
  }'
```

#### `actions`

**Type:** array
**Modifiable:** yes

A list of API actions permitted for the key. `["*"]` for all actions.

The `*` character can also be used as a wildcard to get all permissions for a route, e.g. `documents.*` to authorize access to all document-related endpoints.

#### `indexes`

**Type:** array
**Modifiable:** yes

A list of indexes permitted for the key. `["*"]` for all indexes.

#### `expiresAt`

**Type:** string
**Modifiable:** yes

> Date and time when the key will expire, represented in **ISO-8601** format. `null` if the key never expires.

Reviewer: @maryamsulemani97 has been writing `ISO 8601` (without the dash).  I have my doubts about the usefulness of mentioning ISO formats by their code, but I think we should make sure we're consistent in how we call it.

This comment also applies to the two fields below, `createdAt` and `updatedAt`.

Reviewer 2: I used ISO 8601 instead of `ISO 8601`.

Reviewer: Yeap, sorry, I accidentally used backticks instead of quotes for some reason.

Also, [it seems ISO also prefer not to use the hyphen](https://www.iso.org/iso-8601-date-and-time-format.html). I think it makes sense to follow their usage and format references to ISO standards as @maryamsulemani97 has been doing.

```suggestion
Date and time when the key will expire, represented in **ISO 8601** format. `null` if the key never expires.
```

| version          | Provides access to the [get MeiliSearch version](/reference/api/version.md#get-version-of-meilisearch) endpoint. |

#### `indexes`

**Type:** array
**Mandatory:** yes

A list of indexes permitted for the key. `["*"]` for all indexes.

#### `expiresAt`

**Type:** string
**Mandatory:** yes

Date and time when the key will expire, represented in **ISO-8601** format. `null` if the key never expires.

### Example

<CodeSamples id="create_a_key_1" />

#### Response: `201 Created`

```json
{
    "description": "Add documents: Products API key",
    "key": "d0552b41536279a0ad88bd595327b96f01176a60c2243e906c52ac02375f9bc4",
    "actions": [
        "documents.add"
    ],
    "indexes": [
    "products"
    ],
    "expiresAt": "2021-11-13T00:00:00Z",
    "createdAt": "2021-11-12T10:00:00Z",
    "updatedAt": "2021-11-12T10:00:00Z"
}
```

## Update a key

<RouteHighlighter method="PATCH" route="/keys/:key"/>

Update the description, permissions, or expiration date of an API key. To learn more about the variables sent in the body of the request, see the [create key](#body) endpoint.

> Updates to keys are **partial**. This means that you should provide only the fields you intend to update, as any fields not present in the payload will remain unchanged.

Reviewer: Major nitpick: that `that` seems unnecessary. 

(Major as in extremely small and unimportant).

```suggestion
Updates to keys are **partial**. This means you should provide only the fields you intend to update, as any fields not present in the payload will remain unchanged.
```
